## Synopsis

GAPy (pronounced "Gee - Aee - Pie") is an assortment of Python scripts that FPGA developers can use to automate code development and work flow. These tools are Python3-based only and will not support the old Python2 constructs.

***getInstance.py*** - A script that will parse a user-specified HDL file's port list and parameter list, converting it to a block of code used for instantiation that is accessible from the user's OS Clipboard.

***synthesisParser.py*** - A script used to ease the process of manually parsing the synthesis logfile generated by the synthesis tool, Synplify Pro. It provides a lightweight interactive prompt for navigating the different informational statements in the logfile.

## Motivation

FPGA development has a lack of automation tools, to say the least. I intend to change that. This repository will contain a list of functions that will make an FPGA developers coding experience faster and more efficient.

## Installation

Clone this project to an accessible location on your local machine or server: 

` git clone https://github.com/rdustinb/fpga_code_ops.git `

The user should run:

`python3 getInstance.py --path`

to properly add the script to the user's .alias file for future use.

If any dependencies are missing each script will tell the designer how to install them.

### Dependecies ###

The tools in this repository depend on the following Python Libraries:

**getopt** - allows user input from the terminal to be pulled into the script in a concise manner.

**sys** - allows Terminal arguments to be enumerated inside the scripts.

**pyperclip** - allows the scripts to access your systems Clipboard for writing. Don't worry, these scripts aren't reading out of the Clipboard for any reasons.

**operator** - efficient operators implicit to the Python language.

**re** - Python-based regular expression libraries. Because everything is easier with RegExps.

## Code Example

`getInstance path/to/hdl/file.sv <tabSpace> <column align> <comment align>`

Where each option performs the following spacing:

```Verilog
module_name #(
                .BUSWIDTH                  (BUSWIDTH),
<--tabSpace-->  .RSTPOL <--column align--> (RSTPOL),
                ...
                .MAGIC                     (MAGIC)
) module_name_0 (
                .clk                       (clk),                          // in [1]
<--tabSpace-->  .ben    <--column align--> (ben),      <--comment align--> // in [15:0]
                ...
                .active                    (active),                       // inout [1]
                .dout                      (dout)                          // out [3:0]
);
```
I personally use the following command:

`getInstance path/to/hdl/file.sv 2 25 15`

Both the <column align> and <comment align> options begin counting columns at the port-name-dot `.` and the port-connect-opening-parentheses `(`. The three options are additive to an absolute column number. For instance, if the options `2 25 15` are specified, the comments of the ports will begin on column 42 when the instance is pasted into the containing document or code file.

```
$ python3 synthesis_parser.py

Please enter synthesis report to parse:
<users_srr_file>.srr

What data do you want to display?
	Count of total warnings                [warn_total]
	Count of warnings by file              [warn_count]
	List of warnings by file               [warn_list]
	List of counter overflows by file      [warn_ovflw]
	List of warnings pertaining to IO      [warn_inout]
	Quit script....                        [quit]
```

Use the relative path to the .srr file for <users_srr_file>. Then use the respective terminal menu entries to navigate the script.

## Tests

Running any of the scripts with the --test option will cause the script to run using the example code in the tests/ folder.

## Contributors

If you have a feature request, [please add it!](https://github.com/rdustinb/fpga_code_ops/issues)
You can follow me on Twitter: [@RDustinB](https://twitter.com/RDustinB)

## License

I am using the simple [MIT license](http://choosealicense.com) for this repository as I do not intend for this code base to be closed in any way, but I'd like a simple license present.
